# Who Fed Fido
#### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>
#### Description:
Who Fed Fido is a web app built with the flask framework using a Python back-end. Javascript with the jQuery library was used for the front-end along with some Jinja code as well. I also leveraged the bootstrap CSS framework for the front end as well. The data for the app, including the user information and pet information is stored in a sqlite database. This web app assists up to two users in tracking the feeding schedule of their pets. In order to keep the app concise I limited the number of owners of any one pet to two users and set the feeding schedule to breakfast lunch and dinner. With how the sqlite database is contructed, allowing an uncapped feeding schedule would add complexity and possibly too many columns. Two owners seemed sufficient for the scope of this project along with the assumption that most pets have up to two primary owners. The owners will be sent an email via a GMAIL API alerting them that their pet has been fed a meal (breakfast, lunch, or dinner).

The main file app.py uses the Flask framework in building the app. If not already created the app.py file will create all the needed sqlite tables. This file provides each possible path in the webpage and what to execute when the user accesses the page. Each page outside of register.html will require a user to log in. The register.html file is the webpage users will access to register for Who Fed Fido. The app requires a unique username and email. If an already registered username or email is entered the back-end will redirect the user to apology.html which will explain the username or email has already been taken. Users are also required to select a timezone. If passwords do not match or no timezone is selected, they will also be redirected to the apology.html page where they will be explained the error along with a cute confused dog.

Once registered, they will be directed to the index.html page. All pages for the web app are extended off the layout.html page. Each page was then extended from layout.html using Jinja. Since no pets are registered, users on the homepage will see a cute confused dog directing them to visit the "Add a Pet Page." Javascript will hide this image and change the heading once pets are added. On addpet.html users will have the option to Add a new pet by entering their name or adding a pet already registered by searching with the other owners email. The email method will query the sqlite database and then return any registered pets. Once users add a pet they can then return to the homepage to see their pet along with their feeding status for Breakfast, Lunch and Dinner along with an option to remove the pet.

Once the user has all of the pets added, they may then start tracking their pets' meals. All new pets will have the status "hungry" under each meal until they are fed. A user can mark a meal as fed by simply clicking on "hungry." This action will post the information to the back-end app.py file to update the database to indicate that the particular pet has been fed the respective meal. The index.html homepage will then refresh with the new database information from the back-end. Each owner will also receive an email indicating that their pet has been fed the meal via a GMAIL API from the whofedfido email address. I included this feature as it makes the app much more useful when two users are wanting to know the status of a pet's meals. If no email has been received any one user can assume that their pet still needs to be fed without needing to login to the web app. I debated allowing the user to define how many meals but decided against this as two to three meals appear to be the standard and was not worth the additional effort of building a more complex database to accomodate it. I applied this same logic to the number of owners per pet. If one owner clicks "Remove Pet," the pet will be deleted from the database and will no longer appear for all owners. Also, if a user attempts to feed a pet again for an already fed meal, they will not receive a second email.

The most complex part of the project was making the database and app timezone aware. I needed to leverage the pytz library which contains all timezones along with functionality to manipulate timezone objects. When users register, the app.py back-end will save the current date and time in UTC in the database along with the chosen user timezone. Each time the user logs in, a new date and time is recorded in UTC. Both the old datetime and new datetime object are converted from UTC time to the chosen local timezone. If the new datetime is a new day, that new datetime is saved in the database as UTC and the feeding schedule for each pet belonging to the owner is reset to "hungry." The datetime will also be updated for any secondary users. I made the assumption that two users will reside in the same timezone.

Apology.html is a page that will be loaded if any information is not properly input by the user. These incorrect entries include unmatched passwords, missing username, missing passwords, missing timezone and so on.

The helpers.py file contains the apology function that alerts the user. It also includes the login required function. Finally it contains the send email send email function which utilizes the GMAIL API to send the automated email message. The instructions for setting up this API can be found in GOOGLE's API documentation. The requirements.txt file explains the python modules that will need to be installed in order to run this web app.